Hello, everyone. Welcome to a new episode of the
Dissenter. I'm your host, as always, Ricardo Lobs, and
today I'm joined by Doctor Shinobu Kitayama. He is
Robert B. Zayun, a collegiate professor of psychology and
director of the Culture and Cognition Program at the
University of Michigan. His research revolves around cultural differences
and similarities in a variety of mental processes such
as self-emotion. And cognition. And today we're going to
talk about topics like cultural neuroscience, cultural differences in
psychological traits, the self, well-being, emotion norms, and other
related topics. So, Doctor Kitayama, welcome to the show.
It's a pleasure to everyone.
Oh, thank you very much for having me.
So what is cultural neuroscience?
Well, uh, cultural neuroscience studies how cultural environment shape
the brain and the cognition. It asks how history,
ecology, and social practices leave their mark on brain
networks that support human cognition and behavior.
And in what ways does it relate to disciplines
like cultural psychology and social neuroscience?
Yeah, those are all related, obviously overlapping, but primarily
social psychology looks at social behavior, whereas cultural psychology
broadened that perspective by asking how history and ecology
shape behavior. Cultural neuroscience does the same for social
neuroscience, showing how culture influences the neural processes behind
social behavior. It also deepens the cultural psychology by
uncovering the brain mechanisms behind cultural effects.
And what does it mean to say that the
functional organization of the human brain has a biosocial
nature?
Well, it means that the brain is built on
an innate template, but also shaped by social experience.
Through socialization, neural connections adapt so that the brain
becomes not just biological, but deeply social. So that's
how the brain can become socio biosocial or socio-biological.
In your work, you explore how brain processes malleably
are malleably shaped by cultural tools and practices. So
how does that occur and could you give us
some examples of it?
Yeah, typical example we work on, uh, is reinforcement.
So behaviors are strengthened by positive feedback. The same
goes for brain networks. When the behavior is rewarded
in a given cultural context, neural pathways supporting that
behavior grow stronger.
Uh, YEAH, but, but, I mean, but in general,
I mean, how are brain processes shaped by cultural
tools and practices? I mean, in terms of how
the brain operates, how does, oh yeah,
so, so reinforcement is only one part of the
story. So once you get different cultural tools, you
know, those tools make use of different brain network
or conversely, some tools. Essentially make it unnecessary to
have those networks. So for example, you know, uh,
navigation tools in, uh, in driving the cars, make
it uh unnecessary to use your own brain's hippocampus
in navigating yourself, but before this invention, cultural tool,
Uh, people, people needed to make use of their
brain, some particular part of the brain and brain
network to navigate themselves in a very complicated city
like London.
Mhm. So, but I asked you about cultural practices,
but what is culture exactly? What counts as being
cultural?
Well, uh, culture in my mind is made up
of two things, one, practices, and two, meanings. Practices
are scripted daily behavior. Meanings are values, norms, and
concepts that guide those behaviors, namely practices. For example,
Americans often say, when we meet each other, how
are you? And answer could be fine, thank you.
Now, this seems like such a trivial example, but
really reflects some very interesting possibility that American culture
offered the shared idea that the self's internal state
is important, and also it is desirable to be
fine.
OK. And with that in mind, how do we
go about integrating the mind, the brain, and culture?
Well, mind emerges from the brain and the brain
is shaped by cultural practices and the meanings. So
culture, brain and mind form a group of mutual
influences.
Uh, AND I mean, uh, uh, we're going to
get into some cultural differences in psychological traits, but
how are these cultural differences studied?
Well, interesting question. Uh, TRADITIONALLY, anthropologists use ethnography. Sociologists
have used surveys, and psychologists have used experiments. In
cultural neuroscience, we add brain imaging and the physiological
method, brain imaging, including fMRI and EEG and physiological
measurement like uh measuring some You know, uh, enzymes
and so on in the blood flow. And uh,
I believe that multiple methods and approaches are important,
and we need to ensure that those things converge
and if not, investigating why.
Mhm But I mean, when it comes to cultural
differences, if you were to ask people who, for
example, study human universals or even, let's say evolutionary
psychologists, they would talk about uh some information processing
mechanisms that they would say are Universal or cross-culturally
found in the human species across human societies. I
mean, do you think that all of human psychology,
all of our psychological processes or mechanisms can be
shaped by culture, or are perhaps some of them
impermeable to culture?
Well, uh, culture works on biological templates. No question
about this, and those templates are also prepared evolutionarily
with the assumption that they are going to be
shaped by culture. So biology and culture kind of
make each other up over a long span of
evolution now. Traditionally, some people argue that different cultures
are incomparably, incomparably different, you know, simply comparison is
difficult because cultures are so different. I don't believe
it, but at the same time, it is not
quite right to say that some elements are the
same, when all the other elements are different because
all the elements are integrated to form a network
or system. So, I would say what is universal
is the process of formation of human mind or
formation of social brain, and resulting outcome out of
this universal process can be extreme diversity across societies,
across socializations, and across cultural groups.
OK. So I would like to get now into
the example of the self and how it can
vary in different ways across human culture. So, first
of all, what is the self?
Well, interesting question. I would say self is the
source of behavior, source of initiating action, and which
could be called agency. The perception of agency itself
becomes part of who we are. So, I'm paraphrasing
traditional distinction by, say, William James between I and
me. So I refers to a whole bunch of
psychological processes that make action possible. There's a dynamic
system producing action that is the self, but the
self itself is perceived by the self, and this
self as perceived is integrated into this source of
action.
When does the self or notions of self vary
cross-culturally and what does it mean for it to
vary cross-culturally? In what ways does it vary?
Well, we have argued that the Western cultures emphasize
independence of the self, while many non-Western cultures emphasize
interdependence of the self with the other people. But
interdependence itself takes different forms across cultures outside of
the West, which is really exciting agenda uh in
our recent research.
In what ways is the self grounded socially?
Well, through social feedback, I would say George Meade,
uh, once called the generalized other. So basically, you
know, here's a community of people who share the
common sense about what the self is supposed to
be, and this generates other is internalized and become
the voice of the society that becomes really internalized
part of our mind, and that's how the self
is socially grounded.
What is self-relevant information and where do we get
it from?
So are you asking cultural differences in the processing
of self-relevant information, right?
Uh, YES, I was first asking what is self-relevant
information. What, what does that mean?
Oh, I see, I see. Uh, YOU know, basically
there are so many things in the world, and
depending on who you are, what your backgrounds might
be, some part of social environment is more. RELATED
to associated with your sense of yourself, while some
other things are not. So for example, if you
are, well, you are a journalist, and if you're
a journalist and committed to good science, doing very
good job in the interview like this could be
highly, highly self-relevant, while something else like eating hamburger
as opposed to something else for dinner might be
much less relevant.
And when it comes to self-relevant information, there is
positive and negative self-relevant information. Are there cross-cultural differences
in how people readily accept positive or negative self-relevant
information?
Yes, uh, typically, European-Americans tend to focus more and
elaborate more on positive self-information, where, whereas East Asians
do not show the same positivity bias.
And where, I mean, how do, where does this
difference come from? I mean, is it something that
people acquire socially, the fact that they, uh, pay
more attention or accept more readily positive or negative
self-relevant information? I mean, how, how does that happen?
Well, we have argued that European-American culture share the
assumption that the self is an independent entity that
is positive. Positivity is the anchor of the self,
while in East Asian culture, social relationships, social embeddedness
is far more important, and the positivity of the
self itself may or may not be highly relevant.
And this can become part of you, and this
can surely be part of general society and therefore,
in that way, cultural assumptions about the role of
positivity of the self can shape the posit, the
positivity of the self, uh, in, in, in any
given individual.
Mhm, I understand. And in what ways do construals
of the self, of others, and of the interdependence
of the two can influence the nature of individual
experience and things like cognition and emotion.
Yeah, so you can conceptualize self-control as a mental
map, mental map that you utilize in navigating your
own behavior. Also, you can use the same mental
map in Understanding and comprehending other people's behavior and
mental map can be used to say reward or
punish and comment on others' behavior, and in that
way, you know, self-construe can shape the social behaviors,
one through your self-guidance and, and second, by guidance
by other people.
So in this sense, and still on the topic
of the self, how do individualist cultures differ from
collectivist cultures?
Well, I would say, well, first of all, individualists
and the collectivists have different mental maps. Individualistic mental
map is based on independent self, whereas collectivistic mental
set or mental map is based on the assumption
that the self is more interdependent. But above and
beyond, it's possible that even though both personal goal
and social guidance are involved, personal goal aspects may
be more relevant and more highlighted in individualistic societies
where social guidance aspects may be more important, more
salient in collectivistic society.
So when it comes to construals of the self
as independent or interdependent, how are, how are these
construals? How do they come about? I mean, how
are they constructed in a way?
Excellent question. We have argued that behind self-construls you
identify today, there's deep history, ecology, geography, and so
on. So, different parts of the world are characterized
by very different ecologies, which necessitate very different forms
of subsistence, which in turn lend themselves to very
different social systems, out of which Culturally specific construals
of the self must have emerged.
Talking about well-being, but still on the topic of
self, is well-being associated with the kind of control
of the self as independent or interdependent that people
have?
Yes, uh, generally, uh, when you draw comparisons between
Western societies and East Asian societies, independent selves find
the well-being in personal achievement, especially in Western societies,
whereas interdependent selves in East Asia find well-being in
social harmony, social connection, and social embeddedness.
And when it comes to how people approach well-being,
there are linear approaches and dialectic approaches. Could you
explain each of those approaches and how they vary
cross-culturally?
Yeah, that, that really points to something I've, I've
been very interested these days, you know, time can
run like an arrow, time can have one direction,
alternatively, time can circle around, you know, seasons are
the example of the second form of time. Now,
everybody has those two forms of time, obviously, however,
different cultures utilize one or the other more to
conceptualize the nature of well-being. So American societies or
American culture tends to use linear forms of understanding
of time in conceptualizing well-being. So if you are
happy today, you are You imagine that you are
going to be happier tomorrow, and society grows like
this, and of course, a tragic aspect of this
is just the opposite, if you are unhappy today,
your well-being may continue to decline in the future.
East Asians traditionally have cultivated very different forms of
understanding of the relationship between time and well-being, and
which is much more dialectic, seasonal, in the sense
that excessive positive could be the beginning of having
negative, but having a negative state today could be
a beginning of getting something positive tomorrow. So essentially
well-being is conceptualized as circular and more cyclic and
more dialectic.
You have also done work on how emotional experiences
change across the lifespan, and you've done work among
Americans and also among Japanese people. So how do
they change across the lifespan among Americans and how
does it compare to how they change in Japanese
people?
Well, one very robust effect, developmental psychologists have documented
in the United States and the Western societies is
that older people become more positive. You know, they
experience greater happiness and greater positivity, and in part
because they don't have to worry about any negative
consequences in their life in the future because their
future is getting smaller, getting narrower, and getting Less
realistic, so to speak. Interestingly, East Asians don't show
this effect as much. This positivity effect as a
function of age is much less robust in East
Asia, and sometimes East Asian older people show kind
of growth of meaningfulness of the self. So for
example, your understanding of the self as being, you
know, You know, as a resource for next generation,
meaning in life and you know, uh something that
makes your life worth living, those aspects of meaning
aspects of well-being appears to grow in East Asia,
whereas those aspects go down in Western societies.
And do we have any explanation for that?
Well, we, it's very hard to pin down exactly
why that might be the case, but we suspect
that this may also be related to typical self-construe
as independent or interdependent. So in Western societies, yourself
is atomic entity that is independent, not constrained by
the society. Now that's fine, and that can be
very positive if you don't have to worry about
other things, as may be true in later in
life, but as they grow, people may find less
meaning because it's so isolated from the surrounding. Whereas
in East Asia, self is perceived as embedded in
much broader con uh context, context not. Not, not
just not just confined to your lifetime, but generation
of people who may come after you. And as
a consequence, people may have a better way to
handling, to handle, you know, your older age, you
become more embedded, more meaningful, but there's much less
need to be hedonically positive. Mhm.
What are emotion norms?
Well, emotional, emotion norm is a societal expectations about
which emotions are desirable to feel and express. So
for example, initial study focused on flight attendant in
1960s, you know, whether you feel good or bad,
but it's your job and you are supposed to
feel some emotions more than some others to serve
the job, and this can apply to many other
occupations and settings.
But then, do we have emotion norms in all
human societies, is that it?
Oh yeah, yes, I, I, I believe so, I
believe so, and emotional norms can play a very
important role in shaping your emotions themselves.
In what ways?
Again, two ways. One, self-guidance, you may have some
understanding of the social norm, and you may try
to feel those emotions which are considered desirable, but
at the same time, Social guidance is important. So
for example, we share some culture, and we understand
some emotions are important. Now imagine that you experience
that express that emotion and the thing that you
are feeling in, and then I say, oh Ricard,
you know, you are feeling that way, I completely
understand blah blah blah. So in that way, social
guidance may set in to shape your emotion.
Uh, AND I mean, emo do emotion norms vary
between individualist cultures and collectivist cultures, and are there
also differences in terms of how much people adhere
to emotion norms or not?
Yes, uh, actually, that's one of the topics we
have investigated in the recent years. What, what we
found was very interesting, essentially, what we found was
that emotional norms are stronger in Western. Individualistic societies
compares to non-Western more collectivistic societies. By the way,
we found that very interesting, and many people found
it counterintuitive because typically, norms are stronger in collectivistic
societies. So here, emotional norms just going the opposite
way. So, uh, we, we found this extremely interesting
and informative.
Uh, AND what explains that? Do we know that?
What explains the
fact that the norm,
yeah.
Yes, again, self-construal, so independent self-construal highlight internal aspects
of the self. Those are believed to be very
important. One aspect of internal experience is emotion, your
passion. And your passion is what defines you, given
this independent self-construe, and as a consequence, so for
example, if you show your emotions in such a
way that you don't know what you are feeling.
My feedback, it would be very lukewarm, and your
response may not be reinforced. But if you, if
you say, I'm happy, I'm very excited, or when
you are not happy, you may say, I'm entirely
angry. Well, my response would be, yeah, I completely
understand what's going on, explain, and that's a kind
of social feedback you might expect in individualistic society.
Now, in collectivistic society, Excuse me. Both joy and
anger, those concepts exist, no question about that. However,
much more important is social rules, social norms, uh,
norms regarding social behavior. So people tend to disregard
emotional expression, emotional, you know, information leaking out somebody's
behavior, and as a consequence, emotional norms. TEND to
be stronger as a consequence in individualistic societies.
I understand. Uh, IN your work, you also explore,
uh, how ecology also plays a role in how
cognition evolves. So, could you tell us about the
example of farmers and fishermen and how they are
more holistic than herders?
Yeah, so, Well, in terms of cognition, we found
that farmers are more holistic compared to herders. That's
interesting, and we believe that this difference happens because
farming requires much greater social coordination and social cooperation,
which require people to have expanded range of attention
to different parts of the social world, eventually leading
to more holistic habit of the mind compared to
people. For engaging in hunting, which require more focused
attention to any given animal or to whatever you
have to do because typically you act alone, you
walk alone compared to farming, which requires much greater
extent of social coordination, at least historically, you know,
we are talking about several 1000 years of cultural
evolution here.
Uh, COULD you explain uh what holistic means in
this kind of context? I mean, what does it
entail in terms of how people think?
Yeah, so holistic attention, we simply mean the spatial
allocation of psychological resource. Sometimes we allocate resource broadly
to different elements in the environment. So for example,
For example, imagine that you went into a dark
forest and you don't know what may show up,
your attention becomes very, very holistic, broad, just to
ensure that you will not miss anything. Whereas your
attention could be more focused when you're working on
some task, you know, 100% concentrating on it. Attention
is very focused. Now, attention is the gateway of
information. So when you are focusing on something and
filtering out all the other information, down downstream consequence
of this is that your cognition become more focused
too, because you fail to even Get Contextual information
in the beginning. But if your attention is more
holistic, lots of information comes in and your attention
tend to be holistic, but your cognition needs to
be more holistic. Sometimes cognition can become More diffused
or more ambiguous, but more positive take on this
is that cognition becomes more holistic and more wise
because you are predisposed to take into account a
broader range of information.
And what would be the opposite of holistic? Is
it analytic?
Well, analytic thought typically involves identifying some piece of
information. For example, oh here's a bird, OK. All
right, so what does this mean? Well, this means
that typically birds fly, and therefore this bird should
also fly. So what this means that you focus
your attention on a single piece of information, and
then apply some reasoning rules. So cognition based on
focused attention tends to be more analytic, whereas your
cognition, if based on more holistic information, You know,
your reasoning tend to be less analytic, that doesn't
mean necessarily that your cognition is worse or irrational,
simply cognition become more holistic, meaning that you tend
to take into account various contextual information.
So I asked you about the example of farmers
and herders. How about the example of harvesting rice
versus wheat in China? I mean, what are the
differences in terms of what between people who harvest
rice and people who harvest wheat in China?
Yeah, well, it's, there's a very clear difference in
farming uh rice as opposed to wheat, not necessarily
today, but we are talking about several 1000 years
of cultural evolution. So in traditionally rice farming regions,
people still tend to be more collectivistic in believing
in interdependent self, and their cognition tends to be
more holistic compared to people living in traditionally wheat
farming region. Now, you might ask why that might
be the case, and we believe That's because farming,
farming is farming, however, rice farming requires much greater
degree of social coordination and also rice farming affords
much greater calorie per square meter, lending itself to
greater population. DENSITY, greater population density lending itself to
greater social coordination. So there's a cyclic process of
reinforcements to create more tight and collectivistic social practices
in the region, which can be passed on across
generations.
So when I asked you about differences between individualist
and collectivist societies, sometimes you pointed to Western Europe
versus East Asia. What would you say are some
of the main differences or more salient differences between
incognition between Westerners and East Asians?
Well, in terms of cognition, we already talked about
holistic analytic distinction. This shows up in several different
ways. So for example, in causal attribution, well, what
that means is that social explanation of somebody's behavior.
Western Europeans and North Americans tends to exhibit what
we call fundamental attribution error. Meaning that they attribute
behavior to the internal traits of the person, even
when there's obvious social factors influencing the behavior. So
for example, if somebody is giving a seat to
somebody, maybe older person in a, in a crowded
train, you may jump on the conclusion that he
must be very kind, nice guy. Forgetting the possibility
that there's a very strong social norm of doing
this in a similar situation, so that's called the
fundamental attribution error. This fundamental attribution error is much
less weak and sometimes do not show up in
East Asia.
Uh, ARE there any other major differences in cognition
between Westerners and East Asians?
Yeah, another example would be to what extent people
regard. Different sorts of information relevant in making judgment.
So Westerners tends to screen out many pieces of
information simply irrelevant, focusing on something that's clearly irrelevant.
East Asians tend to admit much broader range of
information in making judgment, and this can have very
significant influences and implications in, for example, judgment of
morality, judgment of crime, judgment of, you know, criminality,
uh, and so on.
And uh I mean, and this will be the
last topic I would like to explore. Where does
the, uh, do these differences come from? What explains
these differences between Westerners and East Asians in terms
of cognition?
So we believe that to understand this contemporary psychological
differences, you have to go back at least several
1000 years. Why? Because, you know, humans essentially settled
and studying sedentary forms of living. You know, 10,000
years ago, different parts of the Eurasian continent, and
because farming became possible and herding became part of
social life, which enabled people to settle in a
given place. Once this happens, you know, ecology, geography,
those broad You know, sociological or geographic variables can
influence forms of life. So I already told you,
once rice crop is discovered in some part of
the East Asia, that really transformed the society, and
that society may now be called more collectivistic compares
to form of society encouraged by, say, you know,
wheat farming or You know, uh, Harding, which you
may now call more individualistic.
Uh, IN your work, you talk about the social
orientation hypothesis. Does that apply to explaining these differences?
Well, basically, social social orientation hypothesis simply is that
your cognition may reflect your social behavioral patterns. So
your social behavior tend to be independent, your cognition
tend to be more analytic, your behavior is more
holistic, more interdependent, your cognition tends to be more
holistic. I think that's right. Within the confine of
Western societies and the East Asian societies. Now, we
are finding that the story may have to be
more nuanced if you expand your research beyond East
and the West. So for example, in South Asia,
people are very, very collectivistic, and yet their thinking
tend to be very analytic. Now, it posing a
very interesting question about why that might be the
case.
Oh, OK. So if we look across all the
other cultures, would you expect to find, uh, I
mean, perhaps different sets of these kinds of, uh,
cognitive differences occurring?
Oh, absolutely, absolutely, absolutely. Well, generally, I think it's
right. Still, I. Go along with what we said,
that is interdependence tends to be, tends to foster
more holistic cognition. However, there are some important exceptions,
and South Asia is one clear example and in
our recent research suggesting that there might be some
interesting exceptions in the Middle East too. So, uh,
you know, we'll see how things go, uh, you
know, in our field, our research effort was confined
to East and the West, meaning that most of
the East Asia and the Western societies for Some
obvious reasons which have nothing to do with the
substance of psychological theories, that is where you, you
have data, where research can be done, all those
things. And now I think time is very ripe
to go beyond East and West, incorporating information from
the Middle East, India, South, you know, South Asia,
uh, Sub-Saharan Africa, and so on, and that's exactly
what we have tried to do.
And do you already have any hypothesis as to
why in, for example, in South Asia, as you
say, people tend to be collectivist, but at the
same time they are analytic. I mean, what would
explain these
exceptions? Well, uh, I would say that Well, first
of all, uh, I think we need to share
some common understanding about the timeline of cultural evolution.
So most non-Western regions evolved over several 1000 years.
Western societies emerged in the last 1000 years. It
evolved over the last several 100 years, right now.
Non-Western societies, they tend to be more interdependent and
the collectivistic because in previous time prior to industrial
revolution and all the wealth and all the efficiencies
that afford Living was hard, and you have to
conform with the group, you have to survive by
using group dynamics. So societies tend to be more
collectivistic. Now, depending on geography, ecology, and potentially other
factors like migration. People or these different cultures came
up with very different ways of forming groups, forming
societies, forming communities to survive. East Asian way is
one way, but not really even the dominant way.
So for example, South Asia is the hub of
trade, commerce, and also it was a hub of
many different ideas from adjacent regions. Which lend themselves
to a practice of using argumentation as a form
of forming meaningful social communication and social communities. So
argument to become the hub of connecting people and
forming collectivistic society, which is very different from East
Asian way. And the similar analysis could be Applied
to different regions, Middle East, Sub-Saharan Africa, and Latin
America, and so on. And out of this, Western
societies came out over the last several 100 years.
So let me just ask you one last question
then. Why is, why is it that people have
been focusing so much then on the differences, uh,
cognitive differences between, uh, Western Europe or the West
in general and East Asia? I mean, is it
because they are paradigmatic examples of individualist and collectivist
cultures, or is it from for some other more
arbitrary reason?
Both, both. Let me start with the arbitrary reason
part. Well, basically what happened was that in 1950s
and 191960s, psychology was extremely cognitive, you know, people
imagine that the human mind is like a computer,
which was a, you know, a recent invention around
that time. And if the human mind is a
computer, no way, uh, you can expect a meaningful
cross-cultural differences, and that was fine as far as
it went, because all the subjects in psychology back
then were coming from Western. Individuals. But then East
Asia, Japan initially, immediately followed by Taiwan and Hong
Kong, and eventually by China and Korea and so
on, they became very wealthy, meaning that they became
more interested in Mental health and mental well-being beyond
survival, and that's where psychology came in and providing
data. So that's a historical kind of sociological reasons
which have nothing to do with substance of psychology
or cultural psychology. But it seemed to me that
there's a substantive reason why initial focus on East
and the West, that is East Asia and the
Western societies made some sense. The reason being again,
you have to go back several 1000 years, and
then think about the Eurasian continent. You know, uh,
human, human civilization began to occur in several different
places, and essentially East is defined by rice-based civilization
in contemporary China, you know, several 1000 years, maybe
8000 years ago. Now Western civilization happens in Western
part of the Eurasian continent, and then eventually elaborated
by a whole bunch of other things like Renaissance,
Industrial Revolution, and so on, which eventually leads to
contemporary individualism. Now, those two regions are so clearly
separated, geography, geography separated, and, you know, obviously, people
interacted with with each other, uh, you know, through
commas, but genetic data is very clear, East Asia.
WAS separated in terms of genetic interaction that is
reproduction uh from the rest of the Eurasian continent,
whereas there's a much greater contact across different parts
of the Eurasian continent through several 1000 years. So
if you compare Western edge and eastern edge. Namely,
East Asia and the West, West, you might end
up having the sharpest possible contrast, and remaining regions
may show very interesting stories, but as an initial
step, always it makes sense to focus on sharpest
possible contrast, and that's exactly what the field have
done.
Great. So Doctor Kitayama, just before we go, would
you like to tell people where they can find
your work on the internet?
Oh, I have a lab website. So that's called
Culture and Cognition Lab at the University of Michigan.
And you know, that, that's available. Uh, AND, you
know, if you are interested in our current work,
we have a paper available in Annual Review of
Psychology 2020. For last year, I think that's available
free of charge. Uh, THAT'S, I think it's uh
uh open paper. Uh, SO that may be the
best source to look at.
Thank you. Thank you so much, Doctor Kitayama for
coming on the show. It's been a great pleasure
to talk with you.
Thank you very much. It was my pleasure too.
Thank you.
Hi guys, thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it,
leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by Enlights Learning and
Development done differently. Check their website at enlights.com and
also please consider supporting the show on Patreon or
PayPal. I would also like to give a huge
thank you to my main patrons and PayPal supporters,
Perergo Larsson, Jerry Muller, Frederick Sundo, Bernard Seyaz Olaf,
Alex, Adam Cassel, Matthew Whittingbird, Arnaud Wolff, Tim Hollis,
Eric Elena, John Connors, Philip Forrest Connolly. Then Dmitri
Robert Windegerru Inai Zu Mark Nevs, Colin Holbrookfield, Governor,
Michel Stormir, Samuel Andrea, Francis Forti Agnun, Svergoo, and
Hal Herz Agnon, Michel Jonathan Labrarinth, John Yardston, and
Samuel Curric Hines, Mark Smith, John Ware, Tom Hammel,
Sardusran, David Sloan Wilson, Yasilla Dezaraujo Romain Roach, Diego
Londono Correa. Yannik Punteran Ruzmani, Charlotte Blis Nicole Barbaro,
Adam Hunt, Pavlostazevski, Alekbaka, Madison, Gary G. Alman, Semov,
Zal Adrian Yei Poltontin, John Barboza, Julian Price, Edward
Hall, Eddin Bronner, Douglas Fry, Franco Bartolatti, Gabriel Pan
Scortez or Suliliski, Scott Zachary Fish, Tim Duffy, Sony
Smith, and Wisman. Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Georg
Jarno, Luke Lovai, Georgios Theophanous, Chris Williamson, Peter Wolozin,
David Williams, Di Acosta, Anton Ericsson, Charles Murray, Alex
Shaw, Marie Martinez, Coralli Chevalier, Bangalore atheists, Larry D.
Lee Junior. Old Eringbon. Esterri, Michael Bailey, then Spurber,
Robert Grassy, Zigoren, Jeff McMahon, Jake Zul, Barnabas Raddix,
Mark Kempel, Thomas Dovner, Luke Neeson, Chris Story, Kimberly
Johnson, Benjamin Galbert, Jessica Nowicki, Linda Brendan, Nicholas Carlson,
Ismael Bensleyman. George Ekoriati, Valentine Steinmann, Per Crawley, Kate
Van Goler, Alexander Ebert, Liam Dunaway, BR, Massoud Ali
Mohammadi, Perpendicular, Jannes Hetner, Ursula Guinov, Gregory Hastings, David
Pinsov, Sean Nelson, Mike Levin, and Jos Necht. A
special thanks to my producers Iar Webb, Jim Frank,
Lucas Stinnik, Tom Vanneden, Bernardine Curtis Dixon, Benedict Mueller,
Thomas Trumbull, Catherine and Patrick Tobin, John Carlo Montenegro,
Al Nick Cortiz, and Nick Golden, and to my
executive producers, Matthew Lavender, Sergio Quadrian, Bogdan Kanis, and
Rosie. Thank you for all.